If you’re really good and possess what’s needed for the position, getting an interview pretty much means you’ve got the job – feel positive and pumped up. However, you’ll likely be interviewed by multiple people and go through several types of interviews for the position.

Interviewing is a special skill on both ends of the process. Inexperienced people (on both ends) don’t realize that the interview is not a debate to prove points or show off – it’s a conversation of professionals to establish the mutual fit for the position.

You may come across interviewers who don’t know what staff the organization is looking for or are annoyed to be pulled away from their work. You may get those pushing to prove how much they know vs. how little you do. Failing such interviews, your hope is that those folks’ opinion would not be regarded much in the overall hiring process. Whatever happens, don’t get frustrated and don’t argue. Your goal is to get the job (if you still want it after seeing a bad interviewer) and getting the job doesn’t mean you should prove that you’re smarter than the interviewer. Maybe quite the opposite.

Like with the Resume and Cover, an ultimate winning interview should be crafted for the local hiring market.

Keep in mind, passing an interview can be very different from passing an exam: the examiner checks your fit to be sent off at the completion of the course; the interviewer checks your fit to be brought onboard. What can be enough for a passing grade on an exam may not get you through an interview if you fail to convince them that you have what it takes to become a part of the team. So, be honest, work on conveying an image, not scoring grade points. Avoid common entry-level candidates’ problems and interview killers like mumbling gibberish or moving away from direct answers.

Purely technical interviews seem like a great and less ambiguous way assessing your fit for a tech position, but they’re not, especially for an entry-level job. The whole idea of hiring you at the entry level is that you’ll be acting under the supervision of more experienced folks, and told what to do and how to do it. So your role will be getting what you’re told fast and working hard vs. running your own show. A smart tech interviewer works to evaluate your overall fit. However, you may be thrown into a grueling pre-canned process of coding some meaningless quiz-like tasks under pressure. So, prepare yourself for technical interviews by studying and memorizing popular modes and questions. It won’t help you become a better Software Professional, but it will help you get the job you need.